- [Instructor] Hi, and welcome back.
We're covering dictionaries,
but I wanted to show you something
that hopefully will make you think
and will introduce nicely
the following concept.
We've got our lottery_player here.
But this lottery_player,
and this is gonna sound a bit weird,
but this lottery_player variable
isn't a lottery player.
It's a bunch of data that
represents a lottery player.
So this lottery_player can't do things.
It can only store data.
And what I mean with
that is, if we wanted to,
for example, take the
total of these numbers,
we'd know how to do that
using the sum method.
So we would do something like
sum(lottery_player)['numbers']).
But this is more of a
conceptual thing here.
The lottery_player
isn't giving us the sum.
We are getting some data
that's stored in the player.
And then we're summing it
using an external method.
And that may not make sense
at all for you just yet.
That's fine.
What I would like is to be
able to simply find out,
simply find this passing of
data from one place to another,
and be able to do something
like lottery_player.total,
for example.
And that should give us the total
for this lottery_player's numbers.
It makes sense because this
way, the player tells us
their total, and we don't
have to be concerned
with the data that's stored here.
Also, if we had multiple players,
like so,
this would turn into something like
lottery_player[0]['numbers'].
It would start getting more complicated.
It would be nice to be able to say,
lottery_players[0].total
for the first player
to tell us its total
and not for us to have to
retrieve the numbers,
retrieve the data that's stored in it
and then sum it using an external method.
If each of the people or the elements
can tell us things that
are associated to it,
that simplifies things a lot more,
especially in our heads.
Because then, the player can do things
if we allow it to.
The player could do things
like tell us its total.
Or, for example, it could do things like
tell us how many numbers
matched the lottery numbers,
and things like that.
And the cognitive jump here is quite high,
and it normally is with
object-oriented programming,
but what I would like you
to take from this video
is that a dictionary stores
data related to a thing,
or can do.
A dictionary can store
data related to a thing,
but a dictionary does
not represent a thing,
because once data's
stored in a dictionary,
that data can't do anything.
And if we want to take it a step further,
and let the thing do stuff,
then we need an object.
And that's taking it a step further,
past the dictionary and
into being an object.
So in the next video, we're gonna move
this lottery_player entity into an object,
so that you can understand
what the difference is.
So hopefully this is not
going to be too confusing.
And always let me know if
there's absolutely anything
I can do to explain things better,
'cause I am always ready to help.
So wait a minute until the next video,
and then catch up with me there,
and we're gonna convert
this into an object.
I'll see you in the next video.